kep-2535: not persist on disk and add PullImageSecretRecheckDuration flag to define different behaviors (#4431)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/2535-ensure-secret-pulled-images/README.md

garbage collected.. the list of images that required authentication in `kubelet`
will not be a source of truth for how all images were pulled that are in the
container runtime cache. To mitigate, images can be garbage collected at boot.
And for alpha, we will not persist ensure metadata across reboot of host, and restart
of kubelet, and possibly look at a way to add ensure metadata for images loaded
outside of kubelet. In beta we will add a switch to enable re-auth on boot for
admins seeking that instead of having to garbage collect where they do not use
or expect preloaded images since boot.

## Design Details

Kubelet will track, in memory, a hash map for the credentials that were successfully used to pull an image. The hash map

> will not be persisted to disk, in alpha. For alpha explicitly, we will not reuse or add other state manager concepts to kubelet.

Author: Removed.

See PR linked above for detailed design / behavior documentation.

Kubelet will add a new flag, named `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to make
the expired duration configurable. The default value could be 1d. For a pod with
IfNotPresent image pull policy and an image pull secret, kubelet will recheck
the secret after `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`.

To make the cluster in most secure situation, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to 0,
which means always recheck.

> If user doesn't want to do recheck, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to -1 to disable recheck.

Reviewer: nit: `If user doesn't want to force the periodic recheck, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to -1 to disable it.`

> For kubelet restart, recheck is acceptable, because kubelet only restart when upgrade or in maintennance modes in most cases.

Reviewer: nit: 
```
Note: since the cache is not persisted to disk, a recheck will happen every kubelet restart. This is acceptable because kubelet only restarts during upgrades or in maintenance modes. In other words, it should be relatively infrequent (and much less frequent than the default value of `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`)
```

Author: Done

- upgrade: user needs to drain the node according to the best practice, and re-check is acceptable. (Honestly, many users don't)

> - other scanerios(like changing a configuration or some restart scripts for memory leak): still some maintenance modes.

Reviewer: If you take the above suggestion, I think you don't need this

garbage collected.. the list of images that required authentication in `kubelet`
will not be a source of truth for how all images were pulled that are in the
container runtime cache. To mitigate, images can be garbage collected at boot.
And for alpha, we will not persist ensure metadata across reboot of host, and restart
of kubelet, and possibly look at a way to add ensure metadata for images loaded
outside of kubelet. In beta we will add a switch to enable re-auth on boot for
admins seeking that instead of having to garbage collect where they do not use
or expect preloaded images since boot.

## Design Details

Kubelet will track, in memory, a hash map for the credentials that were successfully
used to pull an image.

See PR linked above for detailed design / behavior documentation.

Kubelet will add a new flag, named `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to make
the expired duration configurable. The default value could be 1d. For a pod with
IfNotPresent image pull policy and an image pull secret, kubelet will recheck
the secret after `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`.

> To make the cluster in most secure situation, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to 0,

Reviewer 2: pull always already forces recheck every time..

Reviewer 2: iow this duration is for pull if not present.. not pull always or pull never... 

so should not be seen as an override to anything but that policy .. if not present since last access was verified

Author: Yes. I add a description in `Not Goal` as well that this feature will not affect pods with `Never`/`Always` image pull policy.

which means always recheck.

If user doesn't want to force the periodic recheck, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`

> to -1 to disable it.

Reviewer 2: -1 or possibly 0 here...

Reviewer 2: alternatively 0 could be some system default and -1 could be an override to force the prior use pattern where rechecking was not done if present unless the tag is :latest

Author: ```
If user doesn't want to recheck at all, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`
to 0 to disable it(which means never recheck).
```

Good point: `-1` is not allowed then.

garbage collected.. the list of images that required authentication in `kubelet`
will not be a source of truth for how all images were pulled that are in the
container runtime cache. To mitigate, images can be garbage collected at boot.
And for alpha, we will not persist ensure metadata across reboot of host, and restart
of kubelet, and possibly look at a way to add ensure metadata for images loaded
outside of kubelet. In beta we will add a switch to enable re-auth on boot for
admins seeking that instead of having to garbage collect where they do not use
or expect preloaded images since boot.

## Design Details

Kubelet will track, in memory, a hash map for the credentials that were successfully
used to pull an image.

See PR linked above for detailed design / behavior documentation.

Kubelet will add a new flag, named `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration` to make
the expired duration configurable. The default value could be 1d. For a pod with
IfNotPresent image pull policy and an image pull secret, kubelet will recheck
the secret after `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`.

Use image pull policy `Always` if user want to recheck the secret everytime.

> If user doesn't want to recheck at all, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For image pull policy "if not present", when admin/user doesn't want to automatically recheck the secret, set `PullImageSecretRecheckDuration`
```

> to 0 to disable it(which means never recheck).

Author: Good note. Updated.
